---
layout: page
title: GRE issue
tags: GRE
article_header:
  type: overlay
  theme: dark
  background_color: '#123'
  background_image: false
excerpt_separator: 
---

<!--more-->

## Introduction

### Hook

use some anecdotes or else to describe the question

### Shift to prompt

Describe what the prompt says

### Thesis

Choosing a thesis ranges from strongly disagree to strongly agree.

### Outline

Tell the reader how you're going to manage the paragraph

## Paragraph

### Topic sentence

It's imperative that the topic sentence intorduces the main idea

### Example

It could be history, politics, economics etc.

Don't use personal examples.

### Development/Explanation

Develop the idea.

You should point out how your example espouses you idea

Explain why this matter.

## Conclusion

### For cases that strongly agree

- introduce a conterpart that someone from the opposite side might use to argue your position
- shut down the counterpart and show how their points don't hold water
- Rephrase

### For cases that moderately agree

- explain that issue is complicated and hard to have an easy answer
- Rephrase

## Example


The choice of one’s college major is not a trivial one. In fact, it’s not common for entering students to ruminate on this decision for months, perhaps years, and then, once a decision has been made, immediately begin to second guess it. The prompt recommends that students not belabor this point too long and simply choose a path that conforms most closely to their interests and skills. In my opinion, I strongly agree this suggestion and argue that students look inward rather than outward when choosing college courses for two reasons. 

To begin, the job market is ever shifting, and one decade’s ‘hot’ job is another decade’s dying one. Thus, to choose one’s profession based solely on the availability of work is to take a short-term perspective, one that will likely backfire. For instance, in the 1950s through 1980s, nuclear engineering was a rapidly growing field as many of the most powerful nations on Earth were not only designing and manufacturing nuclear weapons, but hundreds of nuclear plants as well. Consequently, nuclear engineering graduates were able to find high-paying work almost immediately upon graduation. However, because of issues related to NIMBY (Not in My back Yard ) and recent nuclear accidents like the well-publicized Fukushima disaster, many countries are moving away from nuclear power in favor of other green technologies. Students who chose nuclear engineering in the 1990s - and this market has only worsened through the 2000s. The above example illustrate that the job market is highly contingent upon unpredictable factors and that, if one assumes it is static, he or she is likely to get burned at some point in the future. It seems absurd to think of now during the current technological boom, nut will the software engineering industry still possess dizzying job prospects int he future? History tells us that it will not.

Further, even if we assume that the job market is not dynamic, that is as unchanging as gravity, one should still pursue his or her interests because our happiness level plays a crucial role in how effectively we work. For instance, if a student who is passionate about horse training ‘pragmatically’ chooses the path of computer programming because of the plethora of lucrative job opportunities, she runs the risk of finding herself in a field she arbors and a job she finds no satisfaction in. She might go to work each day, sit at her desk, and stare at her computer screen with the horse wallpaper, wondering what could have been and the career path she could have chosen. She might complete her programming tasks haphazardly and submit subpar work. Research has consistently demonstrated that, perhaps above all other factors, happiness has the most direct casual effect on work efficiency. In other words, workers who find personal satisfaction in their craft not only work faster, but produce higher quality products and services as well. Thus, on a macro scale, governments should encourage their populations to pursue their passions because, long-term, doing so leads to a more smoothly functioning economy not bogged down by worker discontentment. One needs to only look at government regimes form the past that forced many of their citizens to work on farms for the ‘collective goods’. The vast majority of these workers had no interest in being not the farm, and agricultural output plummeted as a result. This phenomenon can infect an entire economy if people choose fields of study based solely on the promise of work and income.

Of course, some argue that in our increasingly globalized economy competition for jobs has skyrocketed and thus it is imperative that we pursue practical paths. However, isn’t that precisely why we should follow out interests? If we do so, we’re likely to do the best job possible. We’re likely to compete at the highest level. We’re likely to carve out a niche for ourselves in this ‘increasingly globalized world’. People who ignore their inner voices do so at their own peril.